Coming up on the show today, Alex shocks me with his latest project, seriously.
Then he lays down some quick fire picks.
So get your notepad ready and then we'll discuss what's going on with OpenSense's
WireGuard setup. I'm Chris.
And I'm Alex, and this is Self Hosted.
No, wait, the RV and Home Assistant podcast, episode 38.
Thought I'd open today's show with a quick shout out to the Self Hosted subreddit.
We had some love from you guys this week.
Hello, hello. Hi, if you're listening.
Hey, there. How's it going?
It was pretty cool. Like someone tagged me in one of the threads who is on our Discord.
And I don't know, it's just cool to see community come together like that.
And we aren't like an official partner with the subreddit or anything,
but I reached out to one of the mods or well, they reached out to me and we had a chat about
a few things. We might have them on one of the shows in future.
And it's sort of got my mind thinking about how we can involve the community a bit more.
And, you know, getting random people on to talk about their setups and sort of figure out what
containers people are running, how much storage they actually have, what the hardware underneath
is, you know, maybe we could have a little 10, 15 minute segment every now and again with
community members, like a community spotlight section.
And you know what will end up happening is we'll get all these ideas from each other and we'll
then all go off and build projects and get excited to do different stuff. That'd be awesome.
People often accuse me of making them spend money. Well, it's not my fault.
I can attest to that, actually. Yeah, I feel like that has definitely been the case.
I mean, the thing is, is I love just getting ideas from the community in general. We get
people to email into the show. But like you were saying, also over on on Reddit,
there's some great ideas and our Discord. That's another spot where I see people
kicking around stuff and often either either tried something and it and then tell us about it or are
thinking about trying something and want our advice. That kind of stuff goes down in there
all the time as well. My favorite thing about this show is that it's not just about
my favorite stuff to read about is, well, there's two things. One is the stuff that works really
well. And the other the other thing is things, you know, all the stuff that people try and then
abandon for whatever reason. That's more often more interesting because that's what takes the
time. That's what eats my time is trying stuff and failing and trying stuff and failing. And
if I can community crowdsource that stuff, I'm in. Absolutely. There's always many ways
to learn, like our friends over at a Cloud Guru. They are the leader in learning for the cloud,
Linux and other modern tech skills. They have hundreds of courses, thousands of hands on labs.
You can get certified, you can get hired, you can get learning at a cloud guru.com.
Now, I've been doing a lot of travel the last few weeks back and forth to the hospital. And
I've been needing to use a lot of hotspot data. And I came across this was on hack five,
I think, actually, I came across just a really interesting little hack, little tip for anybody
looking to do, you know, phone tethering, and try and bypass the the limits that people have
that Verizon or AT&T and people like that set. Now you got my attention. Yeah, I'm sure I do,
given that your house is on wheels. So the thing you can do is set something called a TTL time to
live parameter. And this is apparently how the phone providers recognize whether you're on a
laptop or a phone. That seems too easy, too good to be true. But I can confirm, having been streaming
Netflix over 4G, 5G for the last month, that I went from it being unwatchable to being usable.
So it does work. And there's a link in the show notes to a Reddit thread about this.
This is fantastic. I absolutely have struggled with this. I've experimented with this myself.
So by checking the TTL of the IP packets, they seem to be able to suss out the type of device
that it is. But you can you can tweak that yourself, which is what this this guide walks
you through. And there's other ways, too. I have found WireGuard to be an extremely successful
way to get around carrier bandwidth shaping, which is really what's happening here is
they're looking at your IP traffic, right? And they can see, OK, well, you're going to YouTube
on port 443 or whatever it is. They can actually look at the traffic because it's all running
over their gear. They have complete access to your traffic. And they have systems in place that will
automatically force and in some cases in a really brute sort of lowbrow way. One of the ways AT&T
will do this is they will just make YouTube smack up against a wall and try all of the different
bitrates until YouTube, the servers, finally select a low enough bitrate. And then AT&T will
allow the YouTube traffic to pass. And that's how they do it. Then you have others like T-Mobile
who will actually re-encode your video traffic while it's in transit. Really? Yeah, there's
different approaches. That's nuts. That sounds I mean, that's going to cost them a lot in CPU,
surely nothing else. That may not be how they do it anymore either. They change as well. So that
why I say today in early 2021 may not be how they do it at the end of 2021. But I have found. So
what I do is I have a kind of a special sauce VPN. It's a bit of a proprietary solution from a vendor,
but it bridges AT&T and Verizon. And the endpoint is a couple of Linode servers. And the carriers
just have no idea what I'm doing when I do that. And that allows you to get around this, but it
doesn't allow you to get around bandwidth limitations. So if you still have X amount,
18 gigs a month and you can't go over that, it doesn't solve that problem. Are you on
an unlimited plan? I am. Yes, my employer pays for it. So I don't really have to look at the bill,
which is quite a nice position to be in. Oh, that is sweet. You mean really as a consumer,
as an average consumer, it's pretty tricky to even get unlimited data to begin with,
let alone get it for free. Well, I'm sure it's Verizon unlimited. So it's probably got all sorts
of T's and C's. I think I get 30 gig of hotspot data and then the rest is throttled down to like
600 kilobits or something like that. What this TTL parameter does is it basically gives you
all of your data allowance that the T's and C's permit at full speed. That's effectively what
this does. That is great. We will put a link to that in the show notes. It's going to be different
per carrier, but that seems to work on Verizon. Now, have you been looking for a self-hosted
file sync and sharing like web UI? This just came up actually within 24 hours and I don't
really know what's good anymore. So I'm hoping you have a solution for me. Well, I was spinning
up some stuff on Proxmox the other day and I had a VM and I didn't have Samba installed on my
server because I'd literally just built it. I hadn't run the Ansible and I just needed one
file. So I thought, why don't I find a web UI to browse my files? And I thought, well,
I've got Nextcloud. I could just upload the zip file to Nextcloud. Oh, wait, I haven't deployed
Docker yet. I haven't done all this stuff yet. So what I did was I ended up spending two hours
to solve a five-minute problem by spinning up FileRun, which is a self-hosted file sync and
sharing solution. It purports to install on any private Linux Mac or Windows server,
but it will also support, you know, C-panel style PHP based type stuff as well. I've got
it running out of a container, well four actually. So it uses the FileRun container itself. It uses
Elasticsearch and something called Apache Ticker to do file indexing, as well as MariaDB or MySQL
for a backend database. So it's not a super lightweight thing, but it is very pretty.
It's very performant and it does exactly what it says on the tin.
I don't really need the search. So I don't need all that overhead. What I really wanted was
just browse my files, but this does have something I hadn't considered, but now looking at the
feature list would be extremely useful. And that is it lets you send file requests to somebody.
So I could send you a request, say, hey, Alex, send me that, you know, send me that batch of
pictures or whatever. And then it would give you a way to send those to me. It's not like you send
and receive files around the internet for your day job or anything, is it? Yeah, right. And so
to actually be able to request something from someone just seems like it's a sort of an extra
level of care for guests on the network. And then it also supports guest users too, which
I also would need. So help me understand this. Is it creating its own document space and what you
upload and put into it is what you see through the web UI, or does it let you browse existing folders
and files on your server? So you're trying to compare it to a Nextcloud with that comment,
I suppose. With Nextcloud, you end up sort of creating your own space within your file system,
but this guy, file run, you just point it at a file share or an existing directory or a volume
bind mount, in my case, with a container. And everything just showed up. I didn't have to
change permissions. I didn't have to mess about with anything else. I've actually got it set to
read only just because, well, I mean, the DNS that I have is exposed through traffic. So it's not
going outside my LAN anyway, but you know, I feel like a web UI, it's a bit too easy to get a bit
trigger happy sometimes. So it's read only for me. I just want to use it to download the odd file
here and there, but it's very useful and no import is required. So yeah, very easy to get started.
That is exactly what I was hoping for. It seems it also even has file versioning, if that's
something that matters to you, and has a trash. So if you delete something, it'll first store them
in there before it gets permanently erased. So you kind of have an escape hatch if you need it.
All right. Yep. I'm going to deploy this, especially since it seems like you need to do,
Alex, you got to send me your docker compose for me. Make it real easy for me.
Yeah, but no, I'm going to give it a try. That's a great find. It's called, again, file run.
So they do offer an enterprise version in case you see any prices or anything like that. It's free
for up to 10 users for personal and family use, but they have paid versions for, you know, small
businesses and an enterprise as well. So they have a means to make money. They have a business side.
And that means it's probably going to stick around.
Does use WebDAV though. I'm never mad keen on WebDAV, but that does mean you can do file
syncing using, I think the next cloud client will talk to this.
And if you're behind a corporate firewall too, it's just kind of nice to do everything
over the web ports.
I'll put a link to my compose snippet in the show notes. I did come across a new project
called TermPad. I think it's termpad.io this week.
All right. Let's take a look at this. TermPad, huh?
Termpad.com. My apologies. And it's a very, very super simple. Like if you just create some text
and then click save.
Oh, that's what I'm seeing. Oh my gosh. It's a full screen, not a terminal per se,
but it looks kind of like one. This is just a write space. It's neat.
You know, like Docker containers come up with fake names. If you don't name them,
like angry Torvalds or something.
Yeah.
It's funny. My mind went to angry Torvalds, isn't it? It's funny. Funny that.
So the one I've just created for you was termpad.com slash awful wide eyed napkin,
which is a really strange random generated name, but it does code syntax highlighting as well,
just for super simple, you know, paste bin stuff. There's no database. It's all just open.
So termpad.com is a hosted version, free. I don't know what happens to the data on that one,
but you can self host it as well. There is a container, which we'll put a link to in the show
notes. Kind of surprisingly useful. I love it. Okay. Let's see if you are two for two here,
Alex. Tell me about tiny pin. We're going to be redoing our bathroom soon. So I was,
I was looking across Pinterest the other day and it's just garbage. They make you sign in and do
all this kind of nonsense about tracking what you're looking at. And I mean, it's kind of okay
from a discovery point of view, but it's, it's also just garbage. I hate Pinterest. So I went
on the look for something, you know, minimal to just share, you know, a little bit of a
minimal to just share like a mood board almost. And I came across tiny pin. We'll put a link in
the show notes of course. And this is a self-hosted minimalistic image collection board. Super simple.
You can run it in a container and there isn't a lot else to say. It just does the job it's
supposed to do, which I suppose is the praise that you want. And it's nice to see that they
have Chrome extensions and through iOS shortcuts, there's a way you could add it to your share
sheet as well. It seems that's handy. I don't see necessarily something in here for Android,
but there probably is a means if you can think it up. I had a quick look at tiny pin just before
the show and it is very minimal, but it does a good job of laying images out in different sizes
in a very dynamically scalable way. So you can have a tablet size, you can have a full
webpage version, or it can be on your phone. And it actually manages to sort of present the images
in a unique way while also letting you get in there full screen. So I kind of, I think this is
a nice little find. I don't quite grok how it's okay. Can you explain to me how it's sucking the
images in and storing them? Cause that's the part I don't quite grok. No, I'm not sure it stores in
the backend. It stores stuff in a data directory. So it's just a volume bind mount on the file
system. Nothing too crazy, no database needed or anything like that. And you could go sniffing
through there and back them up pretty easily if you needed to. Okay. Well we're two for two. I
think that's a pretty good find. I think also the wifey would really love that one. That'd be a good
one to add to the home server to impress her. I think now I want to see if you can be three for
three on this one, Alex. Tell me about OpenSense 21.1. I vicariously OpenSense through you.
Well, PFSense made a bit of a stink the other week by adding WireGuard support finally.
And not to be outdone, the OpenSense project released 21.1, which is nicknamed Marvelous
Meerkat. They say that it has new and improved firewall rules, NAT categories, better traffic
graphs, all that kind of stuff. And they have a really small dig in their release notes at
PFSense, which I really enjoyed, which says, for those wondering, the WireGuard plugin has
been available on OpenSense since 2019 and receives continuous improvements by its maintainer.
And that feature is unlikely to change.
My eyes were immediately drawn to that in their release notes. I didn't realize PFSense had added
WireGuard, but this is really good. Now we have it in both OpenSense and PFSense. Our WireGuard
future has arrived. I'm just sad that it didn't make it into 2020 because my prediction was that
PFSense would ship WireGuard. But I guess those BSD guys just shit when they're ready.
No plans for you to go back, I assume? You're going to stick with the old OpenSense,
I would imagine? OpenSense is kind of driving me crazy.
Oh. There's a few reasons. Mostly to do with
WireGuard, if I'm honest. I just think the implementation is...
Maybe it's user error, okay? I will fully admit that I am not a network guy, but I spent,
from the hospital, at least two or three weeks for maybe half an hour to an hour at a time,
most days, trying to get WireGuard fully working. So I can connect in remotely, just fine.
I can ping the firewall just fine. I can connect to the web UI of the firewall itself just fine.
I can route traffic through my home internet connection just fine. But I can't access any
hosts on my LAN, which kind of defeats the purpose for me. I don't necessarily really want to route
my traffic through my house, but it's a nice benefit of WireGuard. What I wanted was to be
able to access Proxmox or ESXi remotely and continue rebuilding my servers, which I've been
doing for the last couple of months. And I've wasted... I don't even know how many hours trying
to make this effing thing work. And I wrote the man page on WireGuard for OpenSense and I feel
like a fraud because I just can't make it work. I wrote the book. I'm convinced at this point that
there is a bug that I can't find. So I'm probably going to new compave my OpenSense install, which
is... I don't want to do it, but I've wasted so much time and I'm convinced I've got all the
firewall rules set up correctly that I don't see that I'm left with any other option. And so that
then makes me think, well, if I'm going to new compave OpenSense, why don't I try ViOS or some
other... I don't know. There's a million different options to try out there. Or I could just go
whole hog and run CentOS streams and IP tables. Go full Westpain on it, is what you could do there.
He does it home. Yeah, that WireGuard routing issue is tricky. He and I had to do some
troubleshooting to get that working here at the studio. ViOS, I've heard the word ViOS
I've heard the Discord talking about that recently. Is that a firewall platform?
It is, yeah. It's Linux based, so not BSD. There's no web UI whatsoever, so far as I'm aware. I did
try it once about a year ago for a few hours and the learning curve is real, so I gave up.
The trouble is with learning a firewall is you go on the internet to Google stuff, don't you?
But if your firewall's down, you have a hard time doing that. There are some things that are so
mission critical that I just almost can't be bothered to change them because I know how much
work it's going to be to learn a new thing and OpenSense is good enough. I do love the project.
I think it's very stable. I never have to reboot the box. I never have to worry about updates or
anything like that. But this WireGuard issue is kicking my ass, to be honest with you.
I agree. It is a great product. It is a solid project and PFSense before it too. I also really
like it. But I get you. I know what you mean. And sometimes it's really easy with WireGuard
because something has it built in like some of the GI routers that we've talked about before.
And sometimes it's something you've got to build up. I'm the guy that was trying to do WireGuard
from behind a double carrier grade NAT to a Linode then down to the studio and I wanted to
get to everything by its name. And I mean, that's quite the setup. Maybe we'll chat more about it
sometime. What I did end up doing was I ended up looking at the Linux server WireGuard Docker image.
Now this thing is slick AF. So you spin up the container, you do it in Docker compose,
you name your peers just as an environment variable. So you can either say I want
peers for, you know, so I want four peers and just deal with peers via a number. Or you can say
peers, and then just put a space limited list. So you know, you put phone space, desktop space,
server, whatever, as the environment variable, and it will go and generate all the config files for
you. But here's the really cool bit. They've built in an alias into the container that will print out
a QR code for each of those setups from a single line command. It's just slick, you know, after
messing about with open sense for so long, and it's kind of older, less mature, I would say,
implementation to come across the Linux server container was just a breath of fresh air.
And so I ended up using our sponsor Linode. So you can use the coupon code Linode.com slash SSH.
I ended up using our sponsor Linode to spin up a host dedicated to running this Linux server
WireGuard container. And it just works really well. The performance is great. And I'm able to
back this thing up. So I know that if anything happens, I've got the Linode backups. It just
works really, really well. And whilst I was fiddling about with this container, I ran across
a blog post from John Muchovech. I'm sorry, I probably butchered that name. The website link
will be in the show notes, of course. And this is super cool. It lets you route specific containers
through the WireGuard container as well. So you're able to use the Docker networking to potentially
have multiple instances of WireGuard going to different places for different services,
all on the same box. And it uses a parameter that is released as part of Docker Compose 3.8 schema
of network mode service colon WireGuard to route the traffic through that container. So
you could, for example, basically bind Nextcloud or any other service to listen only on that
WireGuard server, just using one line of config in your Compose file. Super cool. And I love this
kind of stuff. Linode.com slash SSH. Go there to get a $100 60 day credit towards a new account
and go there to support the show. This is a great way to see what Linode can do. They're our cloud
hosting provider. If it's back end infrastructure for the network, if it's a game server for
my kids, or if it's a project we're working on for self hosted, we run it all on Linode.
You have $100 here to work with. I mean, I want to be frank with you. You can do so much at Linode
with that much credit. Check out some of their GPU systems. These are crazy. And in fact,
Cloud Spectator Benchmarking, it's a group that goes around and tries the performance aspects of
different cloud providers. They recently said that Linode has the fastest GPUs in the industry,
outperforming AWS, Azure, Google. I mean, if you have any kind of image manipulation workload
that you need to do and you just want to crank it out super fast, go to Linode.com slash SSH
and get our $100 credit and use some of it for that. Image stuff is so cool right now because
there's so many fun open source projects that you can play with and easily deploy on Linode.
The entire stack, regardless of what kind of system you get, they all have super fast native
SSDs, 40 gigabit connections into the hypervisors, and they have 11 data centers around the world.
So there's probably something that's going to work for you, a client, a customer, etc.
And additionally, they have all of this while being 30 to 50% less than AWS or Google. I mean,
that's what's amazing. The fastest GPUs, crazy fast network connections. The reason why is they've
been around since 2003. So they had a lot of time to figure out how to do this right. They have had
a lot of time to get great deals, great network providers and connections. I mean, this is the
benefit of being an independent cloud provider for as long as they have. They got a jumpstart
on everybody else. And you can benefit now by going to Linode.com slash SSH and you can support
this here show. Linode is really dedicated to offering the best Linux experience in the cloud.
If it runs on Linux, you'll be able to run on Linode and be able to manage it easily with their
cloud manager. Linode.com slash SSH. Thanks to Linode for sponsoring the self hosted program.
And thanks to everybody who supports our show by visiting Linode.com slash SSH.
What show is that? I mean, we we had accusations this week of being the Raspberry Pi and RV home
assistant podcast. Well, it kind of goes that way sometimes. But I think it's a reflection of the
trends of the time, man. Pi's come to a really good price point and performance. Low power is
low power is more popular than ever. Also low noise, I'll point out. And Home Assistant is
just blown up in the last three years. You know what's really going to annoy that commenter in
particular is that I have been running Home Assistant on the Pi. So we're going to talk
about the Pi for a little bit right now. For the last month, and it's been great the Pi 4.
I found an old SSD in a drawer 120 gig SSD that's probably five years old. And I have from my
shucking of easy stores, I have a USB to SATA converter. So I just reused that. So I'm up cycling,
reducing e-waste, all that kind of good stuff, go me. And I put the Raspberry Pi Home Assistant
image on there, expecting it to be, you know, I'm coming from an x86 platform. So whilst I move
across from my Xeons to the Intel system and sort of redo things and move things around, I got fed up
of my DNS stopping working all the time because I was running Adguard in a container. And I got
fed up of Home Assistant not being up because it automates a lot more in my house than I really
realize when it's not there. And I was expecting the Pi to be just a stop gap. I was expecting it
to be good enough, but I was expecting to be ready to leave it after a few weeks. And I'm
pleasantly surprised to report that I think it's fine for most people. Wow. I got to take all this
in. This is a moment in the show. Episode 38, mark it down in the books, everybody. Wow. Wow.
Because I feel like you always thought I was a little silly for doing it on the Pi. I did.
I'll be honest. Yeah. I mean, the storage thing is still a problem. I don't like having an SSD
with its ass hanging out on my desk with some random SATA to USB board connected up.
And I'm not comfortable, if I'm being honest, with so much of what I depend on running over USB.
Yeah. I don't like it.
I agree totally. But the performance has been good. I mean, I don't do anything too crazy
with image processing or anything like that through Home Assistant. I do that generally
through Blue Iris, which is a dedicated box in my closet over there. And this leads us nicely into
some follow-up. So a little while ago, I talked about doing or wrote about doing Intel GVT-G
pass-through, which is virtual GPUs. So you can slice up the graphics card built into your CPU
into a couple of slices, give Plex and QuickSync one slice, and then give Blue Iris and QuickSync
another slice over there. And then there's still some left for the host at the same time with no
PCIe GPUs required. That's like the Holy Grail for me. That was like the perfect setup.
Unfortunately, it didn't work very well. Didn't work out very well.
What happened?
I was getting kernel panics with Proxmox. I was getting hung processes without kernel panics.
So it was fine as long as I wasn't running Blue Iris. And I think the Windows Blue Iris load was
just too much for the GVT-G stuff to handle. And I wrote a blog post about how to do it with
Proxmox. And a lot of people have been pinging me about the performance and stuff like that. So
this is unfortunately my update is to say that I have bought and sold an HP 290 in the last month
because I was so happy it worked. And then the proof in the pudding turned out to be it wasn't.
Good enough. So I've gone back to a dedicated Windows box for Blue Iris with QuickSync. And
now my server is still the i5 8500 that I've purchased running Plex using QuickSync on that
box with pass-through for the storage and that kind of stuff to a VM. So I'm running Plex on
the host, but I'm still running most of my containers in a VM on that host with Proxmox.
And a lot of people will think I'm mad for doing that, but I prefer doing it that way.
Because it minimizes the number of reboots I need to do on the host.
When you say you're running on the host, do you mean in a container or do you mean
actually installed like a package?
Plex is running in a container on top of Proxmox, a Docker container, not a LXC. I'm using LXC for
stuff like AdGuard and a couple of other things like Bastion, SSH host and that kind of stuff.
But for the most part, I like to try and keep the host as clean as possible to minimize host
reboots, because when I reboot that server, it takes a lot of services out and it's a pain in
the bum. So I'd rather not do that.
And Proxmox, does it still give you a GUI to manage a Docker container pretty well?
Like all that's just built into Proxmox?
Not Docker, no. It does LXCs, but not Dockers.
So did you get on the host like command line and install Docker?
SSH, yeah. So Proxmox is built on top of Debian. And actually the route that I went to install
Proxmox was a naked Debian install. And then you can install the Proxmox packages and repos on
top of that. So it's just, you know, vanilla Debian with the Proxmox kernel effectively.
It's not like free NAS where you start mucking about on the host OS and you could really screw
stuff up. That's what's always put me off on these appliances.
You could. I mean, it's Linux, but Proxmox isn't an appliance. It's an abstraction layer.
So they do weird stuff with like networking and they put all the VM configs in, you know,
bespoke places that are unique to Proxmox. And that's probably my biggest issue with Proxmox
as a project, to be honest, is it's slightly esoteric. But once you learn those little
foibles, does the job.
Yeah, it doesn't seem like it's too bad. And you were able to get it working.
So you kind of have a real, I mean, a bit of a hodgepodge right now.
Sounds like you got like three different servers running in your house right now.
I did. Yeah. So I predicated all of my buying and purchase decisions around this Intel GVTG
stuff actually working. And it was only once it had been in production for a couple of weeks,
I sort of really realized that, no, this isn't going to be reliable enough and I'm going to have
to constantly keep poking and tending this thing. And so, yeah, going back to the HP 290 as a
Windows box, the i5-8500 based system with PyKVM as my server. And then I've got a Homelab box as
well, which currently is the dual Xeons, which I was running for the last two, three years
with 128 gigs of RAM. And I'm going to use that as like a Homelab slash backup box. So I'll power
it on minimum, I don't know, once a week, whatever. Have a couple of 10 terabyte hard drives in there
and mirror my ZFS array with ZFS send or whatever. And then that'll be my onsite backup effectively.
But what I'm thinking is that those dual Xeons are massive overkill for running OpenShift in
my context of developing infrastructure at work, which is its primary use case.
And so I'm thinking maybe I could get away with a knock or two for that role,
or maybe I should just stop spending money and just use what I've got.
Well, I think clearly you just haven't gotten the Py religion enough,
because that just sounds like great uses for a bunch of pies.
Oh, yeah.
Because you also have a Py running now. You now have a Py running with Homestead,
so it is a several systems.
Yeah, I think so. I probably will take Home Assistant off the Py. I'll probably put it
back on Proxmox because I've got NVMA storage in there. It's going to be more performant than the
Py, particularly when you're loading lots of plugins like VS Code and the heavier stuff like
Node-RED. You do notice a difference there.
Yeah, or snapshots or updates.
Yeah, updates for sure. It takes 10 or 15 minutes instead of five.
So yeah, you do notice it's a less powerful system.
But in terms of just day-to-day functionality of controlling your
devices and automations, it does do the job just fine.
Well, that's the thing about an automation, right? It just happens without me knowing
how long it takes. If it takes eight milliseconds instead of four, I don't really care.
No, and for me, in my particular use case, because in 2021, I think I will be off-grid
more than I ever have been. Power matters more than ever. I've actually been condensing down.
I'm now down to just two Pys, and I'm going to try to condense down to maybe just one
Py or the Odra item. I'm not sure yet.
The Py intervention that we staged appears to be working then.
Yeah, it's funny. As I'm sort of scaling down, you're scaling up your Py usage. I think you'll
be on the show soon. Tell me about more Py deployments you've done.
You say that, but I was looking at the Odroid stuff, particularly after Home Assistant Blue
came out. I was like, okay, well, this is the future of Home Assistant. I should just buy
one of those and call it good. But they're $180? That's too much. Compared to what you can buy as
a used Dell or a used HP system, the HP290 that's now running my Blue Iris was $140 shipped. For
that, I got a 500 gig hard drive. I got eight gigabytes of RAM and a quick sync capable eighth
gen Intel CPU with two PCIe slots. I can add an NVMe drive.
X86 compatibility.
Yeah, and X86 as well. I could add any eighth gen Intel CPU into there if for whatever reason
the Celeron that's in there isn't good enough, which it is actually for the six cameras that I
have with quick sync. I could add an NVMe drive in there. I could add more RAM. I can do PCIe slots
and it was $140.
It is too expensive then. The Odroid is just too expensive and it doesn't have the compatibility
that the Raspberry Pi 4 does.
I'm still feeling the pain from that Helios purchase. I still feel really almost burned
by that because I thought ARM would be better by now. It's just a struggle. Whenever you're
trying to do something, you'll always come across some edge case of the container you want to run
doesn't have an image for the correct architecture, or some package isn't built for ARM,
or it's not got quick sync. I know I keep going on about quick sync, but it is amazing.
And for me, the price I pay of a few extra watts and a few extra liters of space in my house being
used up is totally worth it for not having to futz around with ARM stuff for another year or
two until it's ready.
Yeah, I think that's a perfectly reasonable outlook. Even you make a good price argument.
I think the reality is that if I could only choose between an x86 box or an Odroid type
system for my home hosting, I would absolutely choose the x86 box every single time.
There are kind of examples in the market though that show us where ARM is going. So I think this
is going to be a solved problem. It really kind of demonstrates how it's all about implementation.
You look at Apple with the M1, look what they're capable of doing with ARM, and then you look at,
say, the Raspberry Pi Foundation and the different kind of scale of machines they can do with ARM
and the ecosystem they've built around it now and the foundation that they have built around it.
There are implementations that do it really well, and then their implementations are a little bit
rough. And I think it's so nuanced, it's hard for consumers to understand the value differences
there. And I think that's why you and I have been kind of chewing on this recently is because
these are sort of the unspoken things that aren't necessarily specs that are bullet points on a
web page. These are the more nuanced things that you learn over time when you use them in production.
By using it, yeah. By trying to solve a particular problem and butting your head up against endless
forum posts or, in some cases, because what you're trying to do, you might be the first
trying to do it on ARM, there are no forum posts and good luck to you, you know.
Well, our friends at a Cloud Guru want you to know about their Linux networking and troubleshooting
course this month. This is something you may want to look into if you need the fundamentals or want
to know more about tools and techniques or use cases to configure, manage and troubleshoot Linux
in a networking context. By the end of their course, you'll feel comfortable in working with a
large variety of networking tools and configurations to manage complex Linux networking
implementations. It's at a Cloud Guru, and we will have a link in the show notes to go specifically
to this course or go to a cloudguru.com.
Continuing talking about the pie just to annoy that one specific Reddit commenter.
I'm full troll mode today. We talked about backing up Home Assistant last time
through a Google Drive plugin, and a little birdie tells me you tried it out at last.
You talked me into it, you did. You and the audience, we got a couple of emails in about it too,
and so I finally gave this Google Drive backup a try. It's an add-on specifically for Home Assistant,
and this is a good example of why it's kind of nice to have the full supervised Home Assistant
setup is it's easy to add repositories for this kind of stuff, and you're off to the races.
And what it lets me do, and if you're not familiar, we talked about a little bit,
is it lets you take your snapshots and send them up to Google Drive. Pretty simple, that's all it does.
What I've learned now after using it for a little bit is it has a couple of nice built-in
management features. It'll keep four snapshots locally, and then by default it'll keep four
snapshots in Google Drive, but that is totally configurable. You can also have it automatically
create the snapshots for you, which is probably a feature I needed more than I realized. I was only
doing snapshots right before major events, but if you think about it, it could break at any time.
Something could die. You need stuff that's more current. So I set this every three days at 2 a.m.
to take a snapshot and then upload it to Google Drive. And what I really was impressed by is how
it displays what snapshots are local only, what snapshots are on-drive, and just really easy
options to manage it. And as you would expect, it's stupid easy to connect it to your Google
account. It just uses all of Google's authorization stuff where you go through all the standard
Google login screens, and it's set up and you're off to the races. I can't believe how easy it was,
and now it's just hands-off. There's a little triangle as well that shows up to say,
this snapshot will be deleted when I run the next backup set, just so that you know
all right, that's my weekly snapshot falling off the end of the conveyor belt.
I like this pairing with Duplicati, too. So this is how I'm still backing up any of my system level
stuff. This has nothing to do with Raspberry Pi or Home Assistant. You could use this on any Linux
box, and I really, really love it. Duplicati is what I use for off-siting my Docker compose files,
my configuration files in general, etc config, any of those kinds of things that I think I would
want to be able to restore if I were to reload a base system. I use Duplicati to off-site that
system level stuff. So now I have this Home Assistant Google Drive paired for the snapshots,
which is the application level stuff, and Duplicati for the system level stuff, and I feel
like I probably have my backup more dialed in than I ever have right now. Are you not ever tempted to
use, you know, Git to manage your config files? Because they are just text files. You've put that
seed in my mind a little while ago, and I have been considering it. It's mostly just taking the
time to set it up and bother, because what I have now kind of works, so I don't have like an impetus
to replace it, but I know I probably should replace it before I have that impetus. I'm reminded of a
conversation I had at my first developer job with one of the senior architects. I came in fresh out
of my computer science degree, just a lad, saying, well, why don't we just rewrite this? Why don't
we just rewrite that? I mean, this is stupid. This is really old. Why are we still running Java 5 and
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And he sort of sat me down, and it was over like lunch break.
It wasn't like a super formal thing, but it was like, well, what you've got to realize, Alex,
is that when you rewrite code, obviously there's a cost to rewriting the code. Someone has to pay
that bill. The business, in air quotes, the business has to pay that bill. Some product
manager somewhere has to sign off product owner and say, yes, I'm going to pay for this out of
my budget and do that. All right. Okay, cool. What's the spec going to be? Well, at a minimum,
it's got to be what it already does. But what the product owner is looking for is something extra.
They want to add a new type of credit card that they can accept, or they want to add a new feature,
whatever it might be. And so the bill for them to add a new feature to the existing pile of crap
that's already there is 5% versus 105% of rewriting the entire code base, which could take
multiple years, during which time you still have to innovate to keep ahead of your competition and
patch and write code for the old code base. And you're just like, oh yeah, now I see why
massive enterprises have code bases that are 30, 40 years old, that people are scared to touch
because what they have just works and is a stinking cash cow. So the spec is the kind of
code. The code is the spec. Why would anybody, if it ain't broke, don't fix it or just keep fixing
the minimum viable fixes? What you call technical debt, they call an investment.
It's very true. It's very true. Yeah, I've very much had that same arc over my career. I was
the bull in the china shop. Let's come in and tear it all down and replace it with the new stuff guy.
And towards the end, I was the guy being like, well, let's not replace it. Let's build on what
we've got. But I feel like in some ways, you know, you learn how to do things better. And by the end,
you should be able to build on on what you've done. But it's software is tricky like that.
Sometimes it is better just to restart. And we see it a lot with the projects we use to self host.
You'll see them either fork or you'll see them just sort of reboot completely with a little bit
less features because that's the only way they could get it out the door. Well, we're just about
done, I think. But we have more in the post show. If you are a member, you get a little extra show
you can go to self hosted dot show slash s re if you'd like to become one. Not only do you support
the show, but you do get a limited ad feed and that extra content out there. As always, you can
get a self hosted dot show slash contact. That's the place to go to get in touch with us. And you
can find me on Twitter at ironic badger. I'm there to add Chris LAS and the show is at self hosted
chill. Don't forget the network at Jupiter signal and that was self hosted dot show slash 38